# swagger_client

SwaggerClient - the Ruby gem for the Smart Data Management

RESTful API that can be used to access Kannegiesser's master data back end.

This SDK is automatically generated by the [Swagger Codegen](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen) project:

- API version: 0.4.3
- Package version: 1.0.0
- Build package: io.swagger.codegen.languages.RubyClientCodegen

## Installation

### Build a gem

To build the Ruby code into a gem:

```shell
gem build swagger_client.gemspec
```

Then either install the gem locally:

```shell
gem install ./swagger_client-1.0.0.gem
```
(for development, run `gem install --dev ./swagger_client-1.0.0.gem` to install the development dependencies)

or publish the gem to a gem hosting service, e.g. [RubyGems](https://rubygems.org/).

Finally add this to the Gemfile:

    gem 'swagger_client', '~> 1.0.0'

### Install from Git

If the Ruby gem is hosted at a git repository: https://github.com/YOUR_GIT_USERNAME/YOUR_GIT_REPO, then add the following in the Gemfile:

    gem 'swagger_client', :git => 'https://github.com/YOUR_GIT_USERNAME/YOUR_GIT_REPO.git'

### Include the Ruby code directly

Include the Ruby code directly using `-I` as follows:

```shell
ruby -Ilib script.rb
```

## Getting Started

Please follow the [installation](#installation) procedure and then run the following code:
```ruby
# Load the gem
require 'swagger_client'

api_instance = SwaggerClient::ArticleGroupingsApi.new

opts = { 
  field: ["field_example"], # Array<String> | Influences the structure of the response's schema. Each item of the list must be the name of a field. Fields that are not mentioned will not be returned. The order of the items will be respected. If this parameter is not set the response will contain all field as described in the response's schema.    It is strictly recommended to use this parameter in every request as it will reduce data traffic and can reduce the response time significantly.
  filter: ["filter_example"] # Array<String> | This parameter can be used to filter the response. Each item of the list is a filter and must match the following pattern: `FIELD OPERATOR VALUE`. Where `FIELD` is the name of the field, `OPERATOR` is on of the filter methods listed below and `VALUE` is the given value that will be compared with the value of the respective field using the selected filter method.  ### Available filter methods  Method | Function  - | -   = | all values that match exactly the given value  <> | all values that don't match the given value  > | all values that are greater than the given value  < | all values that are smaller than the given value  in | all values that are in the given value (where the given value must be a comma separated list)   It is strictly recommended to use this parameter in every request as it will reduce data traffic and can reduce the response time significantly.
}

begin
  #Gets a list of deleted article groupings. By default all deleted article groupings will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
  result = api_instance.v1_article_groupings_archive_get(opts)
  p result
rescue SwaggerClient::ApiError => e
  puts "Exception when calling ArticleGroupingsApi->v1_article_groupings_archive_get: #{e}"
end

```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *http://lsesrv.kg.local/api/data-management*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*SwaggerClient::ArticleGroupingsApi* | [**v1_article_groupings_archive_get**](docs/ArticleGroupingsApi.md#v1_article_groupings_archive_get) | **GET** /v1/article-groupings/archive | Gets a list of deleted article groupings. By default all deleted article groupings will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::ArticleGroupingsApi* | [**v1_article_groupings_get**](docs/ArticleGroupingsApi.md#v1_article_groupings_get) | **GET** /v1/article-groupings | Gets a list of article groupings. By default all article groupings will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::ArticleGroupingsApi* | [**v1_article_groupings_id_delete**](docs/ArticleGroupingsApi.md#v1_article_groupings_id_delete) | **DELETE** /v1/article-groupings/{id} | Deletes a grouping given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::ArticleGroupingsApi* | [**v1_article_groupings_id_get**](docs/ArticleGroupingsApi.md#v1_article_groupings_id_get) | **GET** /v1/article-groupings/{id} | Gets the article group with the ID specified in respective parameter. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::ArticleGroupingsApi* | [**v1_article_groupings_id_put**](docs/ArticleGroupingsApi.md#v1_article_groupings_id_put) | **PUT** /v1/article-groupings/{id} | Updates a grouping given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::ArticleGroupingsApi* | [**v1_article_groupings_post**](docs/ArticleGroupingsApi.md#v1_article_groupings_post) | **POST** /v1/article-groupings | Adds a new article grouping.
*SwaggerClient::ArticlesApi* | [**v1_articles_archive_get**](docs/ArticlesApi.md#v1_articles_archive_get) | **GET** /v1/articles/archive | Gets a list of deleted articles. By default all deleted articles will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::ArticlesApi* | [**v1_articles_get**](docs/ArticlesApi.md#v1_articles_get) | **GET** /v1/articles | Gets a list of articles. By default all articles will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::ArticlesApi* | [**v1_articles_id_delete**](docs/ArticlesApi.md#v1_articles_id_delete) | **DELETE** /v1/articles/{id} | Deletes an article given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::ArticlesApi* | [**v1_articles_id_get**](docs/ArticlesApi.md#v1_articles_id_get) | **GET** /v1/articles/{id} | Gets the article with the ID specified in respective parameter. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::ArticlesApi* | [**v1_articles_id_patch**](docs/ArticlesApi.md#v1_articles_id_patch) | **PATCH** /v1/articles/{id} | Updates an article by ID.
*SwaggerClient::ArticlesApi* | [**v1_articles_id_put**](docs/ArticlesApi.md#v1_articles_id_put) | **PUT** /v1/articles/{id} | Updates an article by ID.
*SwaggerClient::ArticlesApi* | [**v1_articles_post**](docs/ArticlesApi.md#v1_articles_post) | **POST** /v1/articles | Adds a new article.
*SwaggerClient::CategoriesApi* | [**v1_categories_archive_get**](docs/CategoriesApi.md#v1_categories_archive_get) | **GET** /v1/categories/archive | Gets a list of deleted categories. By default all deleted categories will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::CategoriesApi* | [**v1_categories_get**](docs/CategoriesApi.md#v1_categories_get) | **GET** /v1/categories | Gets a list of categories. By default all categories will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::CategoriesApi* | [**v1_categories_id_delete**](docs/CategoriesApi.md#v1_categories_id_delete) | **DELETE** /v1/categories/{id} | Deletes the category given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::CategoriesApi* | [**v1_categories_id_get**](docs/CategoriesApi.md#v1_categories_id_get) | **GET** /v1/categories/{id} | Gets the category with the ID specified in respective parameter. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::CategoriesApi* | [**v1_categories_id_patch**](docs/CategoriesApi.md#v1_categories_id_patch) | **PATCH** /v1/categories/{id} | Updates an category by ID.
*SwaggerClient::CategoriesApi* | [**v1_categories_id_put**](docs/CategoriesApi.md#v1_categories_id_put) | **PUT** /v1/categories/{id} | Updates a category given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::CategoriesApi* | [**v1_categories_post**](docs/CategoriesApi.md#v1_categories_post) | **POST** /v1/categories | Adds a new category.
*SwaggerClient::CategoryGroupingsApi* | [**v1_category_groupings_archive_get**](docs/CategoryGroupingsApi.md#v1_category_groupings_archive_get) | **GET** /v1/category-groupings/archive | Gets a list of deleted category groupings. By default all deleted category groupings will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::CategoryGroupingsApi* | [**v1_category_groupings_get**](docs/CategoryGroupingsApi.md#v1_category_groupings_get) | **GET** /v1/category-groupings | Gets a list of category groupings. By default all category groupings will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::CategoryGroupingsApi* | [**v1_category_groupings_id_delete**](docs/CategoryGroupingsApi.md#v1_category_groupings_id_delete) | **DELETE** /v1/category-groupings/{id} | Deletes the grouping given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::CategoryGroupingsApi* | [**v1_category_groupings_id_get**](docs/CategoryGroupingsApi.md#v1_category_groupings_id_get) | **GET** /v1/category-groupings/{id} | Gets the category grouping with the ID specified in respective parameter. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::CategoryGroupingsApi* | [**v1_category_groupings_id_put**](docs/CategoryGroupingsApi.md#v1_category_groupings_id_put) | **PUT** /v1/category-groupings/{id} | Updates a grouping given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::CategoryGroupingsApi* | [**v1_category_groupings_post**](docs/CategoryGroupingsApi.md#v1_category_groupings_post) | **POST** /v1/category-groupings | Adds a new category groupings.
*SwaggerClient::CustomerGroupingsApi* | [**v1_customer_groupings_archive_get**](docs/CustomerGroupingsApi.md#v1_customer_groupings_archive_get) | **GET** /v1/customer-groupings/archive | Gets a list of deleted customer groupings. By default all deleted customer groupings will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::CustomerGroupingsApi* | [**v1_customer_groupings_get**](docs/CustomerGroupingsApi.md#v1_customer_groupings_get) | **GET** /v1/customer-groupings | Gets a list of customer groupings. By default all customer groupings will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::CustomerGroupingsApi* | [**v1_customer_groupings_id_delete**](docs/CustomerGroupingsApi.md#v1_customer_groupings_id_delete) | **DELETE** /v1/customer-groupings/{id} | Deletes the grouping given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::CustomerGroupingsApi* | [**v1_customer_groupings_id_get**](docs/CustomerGroupingsApi.md#v1_customer_groupings_id_get) | **GET** /v1/customer-groupings/{id} | Gets the customer group with the ID specified in respective parameter. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::CustomerGroupingsApi* | [**v1_customer_groupings_id_put**](docs/CustomerGroupingsApi.md#v1_customer_groupings_id_put) | **PUT** /v1/customer-groupings/{id} | Updates a grouping given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::CustomerGroupingsApi* | [**v1_customer_groupings_post**](docs/CustomerGroupingsApi.md#v1_customer_groupings_post) | **POST** /v1/customer-groupings | Adds a new customer grouping.
*SwaggerClient::CustomersApi* | [**v1_customers_archive_get**](docs/CustomersApi.md#v1_customers_archive_get) | **GET** /v1/customers/archive | Gets a list of deleted customers. By default all deleted customers will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::CustomersApi* | [**v1_customers_get**](docs/CustomersApi.md#v1_customers_get) | **GET** /v1/customers | Gets a list of customers. By default all customers will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::CustomersApi* | [**v1_customers_id_delete**](docs/CustomersApi.md#v1_customers_id_delete) | **DELETE** /v1/customers/{id} | Deletes the customer given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::CustomersApi* | [**v1_customers_id_get**](docs/CustomersApi.md#v1_customers_id_get) | **GET** /v1/customers/{id} | Gets the customer with the ID specified in respective parameter. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::CustomersApi* | [**v1_customers_id_patch**](docs/CustomersApi.md#v1_customers_id_patch) | **PATCH** /v1/customers/{id} | Updates an customer by ID.
*SwaggerClient::CustomersApi* | [**v1_customers_id_put**](docs/CustomersApi.md#v1_customers_id_put) | **PUT** /v1/customers/{id} | Updates a customer given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::CustomersApi* | [**v1_customers_post**](docs/CustomersApi.md#v1_customers_post) | **POST** /v1/customers | Adds a new customer.
*SwaggerClient::EmployeeGroupingsApi* | [**v1_employee_groupings_archive_get**](docs/EmployeeGroupingsApi.md#v1_employee_groupings_archive_get) | **GET** /v1/employee-groupings/archive | Gets a list of deleted employee groupings. By default all deleted employee groupings will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::EmployeeGroupingsApi* | [**v1_employee_groupings_get**](docs/EmployeeGroupingsApi.md#v1_employee_groupings_get) | **GET** /v1/employee-groupings | Gets a list of employee groupings. By default all employee groupings will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::EmployeeGroupingsApi* | [**v1_employee_groupings_id_delete**](docs/EmployeeGroupingsApi.md#v1_employee_groupings_id_delete) | **DELETE** /v1/employee-groupings/{id} | Deletes the grouping given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::EmployeeGroupingsApi* | [**v1_employee_groupings_id_get**](docs/EmployeeGroupingsApi.md#v1_employee_groupings_id_get) | **GET** /v1/employee-groupings/{id} | Gets the employee group with the ID specified in respective parameter. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::EmployeeGroupingsApi* | [**v1_employee_groupings_id_put**](docs/EmployeeGroupingsApi.md#v1_employee_groupings_id_put) | **PUT** /v1/employee-groupings/{id} | Updates a grouping given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::EmployeeGroupingsApi* | [**v1_employee_groupings_post**](docs/EmployeeGroupingsApi.md#v1_employee_groupings_post) | **POST** /v1/employee-groupings | Adds a new employee grouping.
*SwaggerClient::EmployeesApi* | [**v1_employees_archive_get**](docs/EmployeesApi.md#v1_employees_archive_get) | **GET** /v1/employees/archive | Gets a list of deleted employees. By default all deleted employees will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::EmployeesApi* | [**v1_employees_get**](docs/EmployeesApi.md#v1_employees_get) | **GET** /v1/employees | Gets a list of employees. By default all employees will be returned. Use the filter parameter to restrict the result. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::EmployeesApi* | [**v1_employees_id_delete**](docs/EmployeesApi.md#v1_employees_id_delete) | **DELETE** /v1/employees/{id} | Deletes the employee given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::EmployeesApi* | [**v1_employees_id_get**](docs/EmployeesApi.md#v1_employees_id_get) | **GET** /v1/employees/{id} | Gets the employee with the ID specified in respective parameter. The field parameter can be used to influence the structure of the response's schema.
*SwaggerClient::EmployeesApi* | [**v1_employees_id_patch**](docs/EmployeesApi.md#v1_employees_id_patch) | **PATCH** /v1/employees/{id} | Updates an employee by ID.
*SwaggerClient::EmployeesApi* | [**v1_employees_id_put**](docs/EmployeesApi.md#v1_employees_id_put) | **PUT** /v1/employees/{id} | Updates an employee given by ID.
*SwaggerClient::EmployeesApi* | [**v1_employees_post**](docs/EmployeesApi.md#v1_employees_post) | **POST** /v1/employees | Adds a new employee.


## Documentation for Models

 - [SwaggerClient::Article](docs/Article.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::ArticleGrouping](docs/ArticleGrouping.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::AutoIdModelBase](docs/AutoIdModelBase.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::Category](docs/Category.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::CategoryGrouping](docs/CategoryGrouping.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::ColorModelBase](docs/ColorModelBase.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::CommonModelBase](docs/CommonModelBase.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::Customer](docs/Customer.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::CustomerGrouping](docs/CustomerGrouping.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::Employee](docs/Employee.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::EmployeeGrouping](docs/EmployeeGrouping.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::GroupingModelBase](docs/GroupingModelBase.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::GroupingsModelBase](docs/GroupingsModelBase.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::IdModelBase](docs/IdModelBase.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::KeyValueModelBase](docs/KeyValueModelBase.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::KeyValues](docs/KeyValues.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::NameModelBase](docs/NameModelBase.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::PatchOperation](docs/PatchOperation.md)
 - [SwaggerClient::ShortNameModelBase](docs/ShortNameModelBase.md)


## Documentation for Authorization

 All endpoints do not require authorization.

